# House-Price-Prediction
Predicting the House Sale Price based on various Attributes of the houses
This report illustrates a detailed analysis on the “House Price” dataset, which has been downloaded from Kaggle website. We selected this dataset to know the basic factors which a person should consider before buying a house in Ames, Iowa region. Here, we have tried to solve the problem of what should be the ideal price (Sale Price) of a house in the region and determine the factors upon which the selling price is dependent. There are lots of factors which come into consideration before buying the house, by using this dataset we have performed analysis on the various factors which would help a person to know what the best option for them is. To perform data cleaning on this dataset, we have aimed to use some specific data cleaning methods such as log1p function and normalization to remove the skewness of the data, k-NN method and random forest method to remove the NAs from the dataset. Next our goal is to build a linear regression model to predict the valus of dependent variable (Sales Price) using this model and eliminate the all the insignificant independent variables.  To find out the insignificant columns we have performed “correlation method” and “ANOVA” method on dataset. We also aim to improve the accuracy of the model by eliminating the insignificant columns having p-value threshold greater than 0.05 and further optimize the linear regression model. Then, we have aimed to optimize the model obtained from above by using feature selection methods such as “Stepwise Regression”, “Lasso Model” and “Variance Inflation Factor” (VIF). To further improve the optimized model, we have applied the “K-Fold Cross Validation” technique. Also, we have applied “Decision Tree” alogorithm on the dataset. Further, we have compared all the models obtained from the algorithms.
Steps Performed
In order to optimize the model obtained last week, we have performed the following steps:
1.	Applied “Stepwise Regression” (Forward and backward) on the model obtained and found the significant columns.
2.	Compared the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) and summary values obtained for the initial model with the values obtained after model optimization.
3.	Applied Variance Inflation Factor (VIF) method on the optimized model and eliminated the columns with VIF value greater than 5 and designed the model again using the columns (with values lesser than 5) given by VIF and compared the same with the initial and optimized model.
4.	Performed the “K-Fold” technique for 10 folds and calculated the accuracy of the folds.
5.	Applied “Decision Tree” algorithm on the initial dataset and compared the model obtained from the algorithm with the optimized models.
